# Trunk Base Development

One liner:

***A source-control branching model, where developers collaborate on code in a single branch called ‘trunk’ *, resist any pressure to create other long-lived development branches by employing documented techniques. They therefore avoid merge hell, do not break the build, and live happily ever after.***

Different types of development git workflow:

* GitHub flow
* Gitflow
* Trunk base development

Addressing issues with low and high volume of commits per day and CI and CD.

## GitHub flow my thoughts:

* Simple and great for Fork vs Shared repo model

  * Open source repo, only Maintainer have write to upstream and Contributors fork the repo.
  * Shared repo, all Contributors including Maintainers.

* Works well when you do not have control of individual Contributors
* Use GitHub for distrubited approached and managed using
* Upstream is the choke point for Maintaners to review PR. In other words, slow release cycles.
* Leverage GitHub PR for rollbacks.

## Gitflow my thoughts:

* More structured and timing release. ie. Every 2 weeks or month or quarter.
* Concept of the dev, qa, release(production) branches
* More maintainance on Maintainers to keep the branches in snyc. More opportunity for complex git history and rollbacks are painful.

## Trunk base development my thoughts:

* Like GitHub flow but more fancy.
* Requires a mature dev team and DevOps team.
* Great for large internal dev orgs for small to large velocity of git commits a day volume.
* With all the quality checks it could possible for Continuous Delivery and Deployment with feature flags though.